’ 34 REPORT oN THE

1 felt for, because the transsation, highly finished as
it is, did not them full justice, in my opinion. 1f
there is any blame, perhaps the language into which
he writ should bear it. ⁷

Irecolle& (it was often matter of conversation),
that by worm-eating, and other injuries of time,
there were here and there whole words, yea lineS,
so obscured, as not to be read3 and Ι, to whom

, this was then better known *than te any else, one

accepted, gave great credit to Mr Macpherson3
concluding, that if he did not recover the very words

⁶ and ideas of Offian, that the substitution did no dis-

credit to that celebrated bard3 and this, as I told
you, 1 then considered as one of Mr Maepherson’s
chief excellencies. ⁷

As I did, at the most early stage of the business,
stand convinced that Fingal was no impolition, you
may gather from the above that I do so still, not·
withstanding what Dr Johnson, fortified by Dr
M‘Queen of Sky, has afferted. The latter appear-
ed to me the most intemperate admirer of Offian Ι
ever saw, and Ι both admired and envied what he
colleEted of the works of that bard, and the accu-
racy and pathos with which he repeated them, though
Ι am persuaded, at that time of day, he did not see
the original or transsation.

xI was provoked, perhaps beyond measure, when
1 saw a friend, for whom 1 had a high esteem, giv-
ing way so servilely to the prejudices of Dr John-
son. Iknew Dr M‘Queen fond of literary fame,

and considered by several as rather vain of how he
stood

