χ ΡΟξΜὸ OF OSSIAN. 153

, him an opportunity of putting together what might

fairly enough be called an original whole, of much
more beauty‚ and with much fewer blemishe8‚ than
the Committee believes it now poffible for any per.
son, or combination of persons, to obtain.

The Committee thinks it discovers so'me difference
between the style both of the original (one book of
which is given by Macpherson) and transsation of
Temora, and that of the transsation of Fingal, and “
of the small portion of the original of that poem,
which it received from his executors. There is more
the appearance of fimplicity and originality in the
latter than in the former. Perhaps when he Eub-
lishe'd Fingal‚ Mr Maepherson, unknown as an au-

thor, and obscure as a man, was more diffident,
more cautious, and more attentive, than when at a
subsequent period he published Temora, flufhed with
the applause of the world, and distinguished as a
man of talentS‚ and an author of high and rising
reputation. Whoever will examine the original
prefixed to some of the editions of the 7th book of
Temora‚ and compare it with the transsation, will,
in the opinion of the Committee, discover some im-
perfections, some modernisms, (if the expreffion may
be allowed) in the Gaelic‚ which do not occur in the
specimen of Fingal‚ given in the Appendix to this
Report3 and, in the English, more of a loose and
inflated expression (which however was an error in-
to which Maepherson was apt to fall), than is to be
found in his earlier transsations. He had then at—
tained a height which, to any man, but particularly

L to

 

