PoE'MS OF ossum. ’55

'tion‚ by Dr Donald Smith, which, though of some
iength, and bearing more the air of discussion than
the Committee in general allows itself to affume, are
·t00 valuable to the antiquary and the Celtic scholar

’ to be omitted.

If the authority of travellers into those parts of
the country where the ancient poetry' is most gene-
rally found, is to be resorted to, the Committee may
quote ‘the opinion of two of the latest and best in-
formed who have visited the western Highlands and
Issand33 whose testimony must have the greater
weigffl, from their being eminent in sciences which
require peculial· accuracy in their deducimus, and
'call for demonstration in their proofs: Lord Webb

Seymour, and Mr Prqfessor Plaffczir. The former
was so obliging as to communicate to the Chairman

of the Committee an extra& from his note-book, kept
during a tour through the Hebrides, which is here
subjoined in the short and hasty form as taken down
by his Lordssiip at the time 3 a form which adds to
its genuineness‘, though it may injure its style. Mn
Playfair desired to fignify to the Committee the per-
fe& coincidence of his opinion with that of his Noble
friend and fellou-traveller.

‘ Isle qf Sky.--OsS1AN.‘

‘ Heard ΜΓ Nicholsou repeat a poem, or part of
a poem, which was) transsated to us by ΜΓ M‘Don·

ald of Scalpa, in a ssight outline of the story. lt re·
D 4 presented

