§OEMS or ossmN. 3

IV. If there are, in your neighbourhood, any per-
sons from whom Mr Macpherson received any poems,
inquire particularly what the poems were which he
so received, the manner in which he received them,

¹ and how he wrote them down 3 {hew those persons,

if you have an opportunity, his transsation of such
poems, and defire them to say if the transsation is
exa& and literal 3 or, if it differS‚ in what it differs
from the poems, as they repeated them to Mr Mac-
pherson‚ and can now recollect them.

V. Be so good to procure every information you
conveniently can, with regard to the traditionary
belief, in the country in which you live, concerning
the history of Fingal and his followers, and that of
Offian and his poems ; particularly concerning those
stories and poenis published by Mr Maepherson, ancl
the heroes mentionedin them. Transmit any such
account, and any proverbial or traditionary expres}v
fion in the original Gaelic‚ relating to the subjec'l,
to the Cominit'tee.

- VI. In all the above inquiries, or any that may
occur to in elu-
cidation of this subjeci, he is requested by the Com·
mittee to make the inquiry‚ and to take down the
answers‚ with as much impartiality and precifion aa
poflible‚ in the same manner as if it were a legal
question, and the proof to be investigated with a*
legal strictness.

A 2 szzq

